http://www.theaspot.com/howto-for-xubuntu-use-dmenu-to-launch-applications-in-xfce/

HOWTO for Xubuntu: use dmenu to launch applications in XFCE
2014-08-30  Source: Original Site  Category:Ubuntu  Views:0

Xubuntu 11.04 uses the XFCE desktop environment which provides a shortcut for maximising a window so
that the window decoration (title bar &c) does not show and so the window covers the panels. Alt-F11 is
the shortcut assigned to this.

I like to bring other applications up while using (say) OpenOffice maximised in this way. There is a
shortcut that will bring up the main menu (ESC-Ctrl), but then you have to navigate the menu.
This miniHowTo explains how to use the dmenu program from the dwm window manager (in repositories) to
launch applications by pressing a short cut (I've set mine to Super/Windows-Space), typing the name of
the application, and pressing enter. The new application window has focus.
This howto has been tested on a stock install of Xubuntu 11.04 using compositor. I have no idea if it
will work with compiz or other window managers with effects enabled. Feedback on that or any other aspect
is welcome.

Step 1: install dmenu
From terminal, run
	sudo apt-get install dmenu

and type your admin password.

Apt will tell you that dmenu is part of the 'suckless tools package' and mention the window manager dwm,
and then proceed to install this very small command line program.

Step 2: Populate a cache of all the applications available in the /usr folder

From terminal run the command
	dmenu_path

and you should see a list of applications printed to the terminal screen. This list is also saved as
.dmenu_cache in your home directory. You may need to run this command again when you install software,
when I installed Seamonkey using the Ubuntu Software Centre the cache was automatically updated.

Step 3: Test from terminal
From terminal run the command
	dmenu_run
You should see a list of applications appear in a 'terminal' style font at the very top of your screen
on top of the upper panel.
Type the name of a program (e.g. 'mousepad'). As each letter is typed you should see the applications
that match the currently typed letters appear in the line at the top of the screen.
When you have typed enough letters so that only the application you want appears, press the enter key. The
application should load.
You can press ESC to abort a search and quit dmenu_run. The terminal is matched as x-t, short for
x-terminal-emulator. I'm fiddling with aliases and the application cache to try to define more user
meaningful names.

Step 4: add a shortcut to XFCE
I chose to bind the key combination Super-Space to dmenu-run. XFCE 4.8 allows you to define key shortcuts
to any program using the settings manager. Just
Select Menu | Settings | Settings Manager from the main menu
Click the Keyboard icon in the Settings Manager
Click the Application Shortcuts tab
Click Add
Write dmenu_run in the command box that appears
When prompted for the short cut keys, press Super and Space (or the combination you prefer)
If the combination is in use, you will see an error message and be invited to type another
Click OK and close the Settings Manager and Keyboard windows

Test your new shortcut

References
dmenu man page at http://man.suckless.org/tools/1/dmenu
keyboard shortcut at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=944456
